---
title: Recusal Refused
genre: Psychedelic Rock / Space Rock
pillar: 1
style: slow-burning psychedelic rock, swirling organs, heavy reverb guitar, hypnotic groove, Pink Floyd influence, 86bpm
tags: judicial bias, recusal, apprehended bias, conflict of interest, judicial integrity, pillar 1
---

[INTRO — swirling organ, reverb guitar]

[VERSE 1]
The judge on my case had dinner with their solicitor
Three months before the hearing — that's the particular
Matter before him now — he didn't say a word
I found out after judgment — my appeal unheard

I filed a notice of apprehended bias, grounds were clear
He ruled on his own application to recuse — no fear
The judge decided for himself that the judge was fine
That's not a check on power — that's a circular design

[PRE-CHORUS]
When the system rules on itself
There's no check left on the shelf

[CHORUS]
Recusal refused — the bias stays in place
Recusal refused — a closed and certain face
The appearance of justice is not justice itself
Recusal refused — and truth sits on the shelf

[VERSE 2]
Apprehended bias doesn't need a smoking gun
It asks: would a reasonable person question — and run?
Run from the conclusion that impartiality's intact
When a documented connection is an undeniable fact?

But the standard's applied by the judge who benefits most
From staying on the bench, from remaining the host
Of proceedings where their connections are the other side's power
The fox in the henhouse by the eleventh hour

[PRE-CHORUS]
When the system rules on itself
There's no check left on the shelf

[CHORUS]
Recusal refused — the bias stays in place
Recusal refused — a closed and certain face
The appearance of justice is not justice itself
Recusal refused — and truth sits on the shelf

[GUITAR INTERLUDE — hypnotic, building, 16 bars]

[BRIDGE — spoken, over ambient sound]
Pillar One — the Judicial Integrity Commission —
exists precisely for this:
An independent body, not the court itself
That reviews recusal applications
That investigates undisclosed connections
That can remove a judge from a matter
Not because they're automatically guilty
But because the appearance of impartiality
Matters as much as the reality
"Justice must not only be done —
it must be seen to be done."
They've been saying that for centuries.
We're still waiting for a mechanism that means it.

[VERSE 3]
Three judges in my case, each with a thread
That ran back to the institution I was fighting — widespread
Each application to recuse, each one refused
By the very person I'd accused of bias abused

The JIC makes that circular logic illegal
The conflict is reviewed by someone with an eagle
Eye that has no stake in the proceeding's outcome
An independence that is actual — not a courtroom custom

[FINAL CHORUS]
Recusal granted — when the conflict's clear
Recusal transparent — when the link's too near
Pillar One Commission — break the cycle now
Recusal refused — no more — that's the vow

[OUTRO — long reverb fade]
(The appearance of justice.
Not just the sound of the gavel.
Not just the robes.
The actual independence.
Or nothing means anything at all.)
