---
title: Privacy Stripped
genre: Bossa Nova / Latin Soul
pillar: 2
style: gentle bossa nova guitar, warm bass, brushed snare, cool jazz feel with emotional undercurrent, 104bpm, melancholic but melodic
tags: privacy act, medical records, data breach, personal information, legal aid, pillar 2
---

[INTRO — fingerpicked nylon guitar, soft bass]

[VERSE 1]
They pulled my medical file without a reason given
They handed it across the table, privacy-driven — out the door
Documents I'd never signed a release for
Sitting in the brief of the person I was fighting more

A breach of the Privacy Act, clear as the day
But who do you complain to? Who's there to say:
"This person violated your most intimate right"
When the system itself is the one picking the fight

[CHORUS]
Privacy stripped — laid bare for all to see
Privacy stripped — that medical file wasn't free
They took my history and turned it into a weapon
Privacy stripped — when will this reckon?

[VERSE 2]
My mental health, my prescription list, my past
Presented to a courtroom without being asked
For a case about a property, about money owed
They weaponised my health file — that's a separate road

The Privacy Commissioner took eighteen months to decide
"Technically not a breach" — I nearly died
Reading that letter — how is this permitted?
When your most personal data is submitted
Without consent, without a warrant, without a court order
Across the table like a takeaway order

[CHORUS]
Privacy stripped — laid bare for all to see
Privacy stripped — that medical file wasn't free
They took my history and turned it into a weapon
Privacy stripped — when will this reckon?

[BRIDGE — soft, almost spoken]
Pillar Two — Legal Aid Reform —
isn't just about lawyers
It's about the right to have a voice
when your most vulnerable moments
are being used as ammunition
by someone with a barrister and a brief
and you have nothing but the truth
and the trembling hands you hold it in

[VERSE 3]
A funded person with a legal team knows
Exactly what documents to pull and where to go
The self-represented person doesn't know their rights
Doesn't know the Privacy Act exists, doesn't win these fights

Until we build a system with real legal aid
Where privacy breaches are prosecuted, not delayed
Where medical records require a court order to use
Not just a law firm letterhead and a wish to bruise

[CHORUS]
Privacy stripped — laid bare for all to see
Privacy stripped — that medical file wasn't free
They took my history and turned it into a weapon
Privacy stripped — when will this reckon?

[OUTRO — solo guitar, tender]
(A person's history is not a weapon.
A person's health is not a courtroom exhibit.
Pillar Two. Legal Aid Reform.
Dignity in the system.
Or the system has no dignity at all.)
