---
title: Expert Shopping
genre: Heavy Blues-Rock / Psychedelic Rock
pillar: 3
style: heavy riff-driven blues rock, wah-pedal guitar, stomping drums, raspy vocals, 92bpm, Zeppelin energy
tags: expert witness, forensic report, evidence manipulation, partisan expert, junk science, pillar 3
---

[INTRO — wah guitar riff, slow and heavy]

[VERSE 1]
They went to three experts before they got the answer they needed
The first two reports said the truth — so they were superseded
The third one found exactly what the paying party wanted
Now that's the report that's been filed, the others haunt it

Twelve thousand dollars for a "independent" view
From a consultant who's worked for the same firm on cue
Fourteen times in the past four years he's been their man
Call it coincidence if you will — I'm calling it a plan

[PRE-CHORUS]
Shop till you find the science that fits
The system rewards it bit by bit

[CHORUS]
Expert shopping — they buy the truth they need!
Expert shopping — conflict of interest guaranteed!
While the real evidence rusts on the shelf
Expert shopping — serving no-one but themselves!

[VERSE 2]
No duty to disclose the reports they buried first
The ones that said the opposite — the ones that got dispersed
Adverse findings don't see courtroom light of day
When you've got deep pockets, you've got opinions for pay

The judge sees only one expert, independent-looking
While three reports sit shredded — that's the actual cooking
Meanwhile self-represented people can't afford even one
So the science in their corner? There is none. There is none.

[PRE-CHORUS]
Shop till you find the science that fits
The system rewards it bit by bit

[CHORUS]
Expert shopping — they buy the truth they need!
Expert shopping — conflict of interest guaranteed!
While the real evidence rusts on the shelf
Expert shopping — serving no-one but themselves!

[GUITAR SOLO — psychedelic breakdown, 16 bars]

[BRIDGE]
Pillar Three calls for a court-appointed register
Of every expert who's worked on every case
So the judge can see the pattern, not just the paper
And call out the shopping before it sets the pace

Mandatory disclosure of all reports commissioned
Not just the one that suits the narrative mission
If you paid for science, every result gets filed
No more evidence graveyards — no more truth exiled

[VERSE 3]
I had my own expert — solid credentials, real
But the other side's team had resources of steel
They funded a rebuttal that ran to forty pages
Written in jargon designed to confuse the ages

Self-represented, I couldn't afford the counter-reply
So the junk science won the day — and I'm still asking why
A fair system would've seen through the charade
But an unfair system let the expert parade

[CHORUS]
Expert shopping — they buy the truth they need!
Expert shopping — conflict of interest guaranteed!
While the real evidence rusts on the shelf
Expert shopping — serving no-one but themselves!

[OUTRO — slow stomp, fading]
Every report commissioned. Every report filed.
No buried findings. No expert exiled.
That's Pillar Three. That's the standard we need.
(riff resolves)
